# Excel Assessment  
For this assessment you will use data generated by fivethirtyeight.com about the NBA from 2014-2020. The original data can be found here: https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/nba-raptor.

### A brief orientation to basketball as it pertains to this dataset (for those who need it)  
In basketball a team consists of multiple players, only a few of which play at a given time. Two teams compete to score the most points and win the game. Plays can be subdivided into _*offensive*_, where a team attempts to increase it's point total, and _*defensive*_, where a team attempts to prevent the other team from increasing their point total. Teams compete against each other over a period of time, called the _*regular season*_. At the end of the _*regular season*_ teams are ranked based on their ratio of wins to losses, and the top teams compete in the _*playoffs*_, also called the _*post season*_. During the _*playoffs*_ teams must win to continue playing, and the last team remaining wins.

This is repeated each year, or _*season*_. The data set separates the _*regular season (RS)*_ from the _*playoffs (PO)*_. The _*team*_ a player plays for during a given _*season*_ is also noted. This can vary from year to year as players are traded between teams.

This dataset gives numerical values for multiple _*offensive*_ and _*defensive*_ measures, as well as comparing the _*regular season*_ to the _*playoffs*_. Each row represents a single player for a given season, season type (_*RS*_ or _*PO*_) and team.

Note: RAPTOR and WAR are acronyms for the calculation used, not team names or the actual word. RAPTOR stands for "Robust Algorithm (using) Player Tracking (and) On/Off Ratings" and WAR stands for "Wins Above Replacement".

## Questions  
-Make sure the answers sheet displays the answer.  Each answer should be the result of a formula, nothing should be copy and pasted.
-Make sure the formulas sheet contains the formula that resulted in the output.
-Write you written answer also in the formula sheet.

1. Calculate the mean, median, min, and max for `predator_offense` and `predator_defense`.

2. Use a formula to find which player had the highest `predator_offense` and which player had the highest `predator_defense`. Also pull in the `season`, and `team'.

3. Calculate the sum of the `war_total` for Atlanta (ATL) players.

4.
    a. Find the values of the first, second, and third quartiles for `war_playoffs` in 2016. Hint: You may need to copy the 2016 data into a new sheet, but your answer should still be in the `answers` sheet. Be sure to only take rows from the playoffs (`PO`).  
    b. How many players would you expect to be in the top 25%?
    c. Get the list of names for players in the **top 25%** of `war_playoffs` in 2016. Hint: You may want to use FILTER().

5. James Harden, LeBron James, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Kawhi Leonard, and Rudy Gobert are the top 5 players in 2020, according to fivethirtyeight.com, where these data came from (https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2020-nba-player-ratings/).

    a. Filter `season` to 2020 and `season_type` to "RS" and copy it to a new sheet named RS_2020.

    b. For each of these 5 players, use a `VLOOKUP` on the table in RS_2020 to get their `raptor_offense`, `raptor_defense`, and `war_reg_season` in 2020. Once you have those values, answer the following questions:  
    * Which of the top 5 was the best offensive player?  
    * Which of the top 5 was the best defensive player?  
    * Which of the top 5 was most valuable during the regular season?  


6. -Use a pivot table to observe each team's total `war_reg_season` for each year.
   -Make a visualization to represent the data for `DET` and `PHI`. Use this visualization to answer the following questions:

    a. Which of these two teams would be considered most consistent based on the data? Defend your answer using a quantifiable measure.
    b. Over which timeframe did `PHI` experience growth in the negative direction?
    c. Over which timeframe was `PHI` the most consistent?
    d. Over which timeframe did `PHI` experience growth in the positive direction?
